---
title: "Drosophila dopamine neurons conjunctively encode locomotion and odor"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-Current_Biology.md
excerpt: '**Michael Marquis**, Rachel I. Wilson. Submitted (2022).'
date: 2022-06-01
venue: 'Current Biology'
---
Abstract: The Drosophila brain contains about 50 distinct morphological types of dopamine neurons (DANs). Physiological studies of Drosophila DANs have been largely limited to one brain region, the mushroom body, where they are implicated in learning. By comparison, we know little about the physiology of other Drosophila DANs. Interestingly, a recent whole-brain imaging study found that DAN activity in many brain regions is correlated with locomotion. This is notable because some vertebrate DANs are also correlated with locomotion or other movements; however, most vertebrate studies have focused on learned behaviors, and few have investigated DAN activity during spontaneous (self-timed) movements. Here we investigated DAN activity during self-timed locomotor movements, focusing on previously uncharacterized types of DANs that arborize in two higher olfactory processing regions (the lateral horn and superior lateral protocerebrum). We found that activity of all of these DAN types correlated with spontaneous fluctuations in walking speed, with different DAN types showing different speed correlations. Some DAN types also responded to odors, but only if the frequency of odor encounters was low. Finally, we found that the same DAN can have different tuning properties in different individuals. Our results show how DANs can encode the conjunction of spontaneous movements and sensory stimuli in a flexible manner. If these DANs promote learning, then their tuning profiles would imply that learning is driven by distinct combinations of sensory signals, motor signals, and recent experience.
